We have now seen some
simple transformations and
how Spark can create RDDs from
each other using transformations.
We learned that transformations are
evaluated after an action is performed.
So we can simply define actions as RDD
operations that trigger the evaluation of
the transformation pipeline and return
the final result to the driver program or
save the results to a persistent storage.
We can also call them the last
step in a Spark pipeline.
Let's now look at a few action operations.
After this video, you will be able to
explain the steps of a Spark pipeline
ending with a collect action and list
four common action operations in Spark.
A very common action in Spark is collect.
In this example, we can imagine that
initially we are reading from HDFS.
The RDD partitions that go through
the transformation steps in our big data
pipeline are defined as flatMap and
groupbyKey.
When the final step is done,
the collect action is called and
Spark sends all the tasks for
execution to the worker notes.
Collect will send all the resulting
RDDs from the workers and
copy them to the Java virtual
machine on the driver program.
And then, this will be piped
also to our Python shell.
While collect copies all the data,
another action, take,
copies the first n results of the driver.
If the results are too large
to fit in the driver memory,
then there's an opportunity to write
them directly to HDFS instead.
Among many other actions,
reduce is probably the most famous one.
Reduce takes two elements and
returns a result, like sum.
But in this case, we don't have a key,
we just have a large area of some values.
And we are running this function over and
over again to reduce everything
to one single value.
For example,
to the global sum of everything.
Another very useful action Is saveAsText,
to save the results to local disk or
HDFS, and
this is very useful if the output of
the power computation is pretty large.